{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}
{\f1\froman Symbol;}
{\f2\fswiss Arial;}
}
{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
}
{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble5}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Title}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs36\cf2\b\ul 
\par 
\par \{bmc Wally.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs36\cf0\b\ul 
\par 
\par Wally Texture Editor for Quake II
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Welcome to Wally v1.0, an editor for Quake II's \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\ul .wal texture files\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble20}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 .
\par 
\par The most up-to-date version of Wally and its FAQs can be found at
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 www.quake2.com/bdp/wally
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Click the 'Contents' button at the top of this window to see the contents of this help file.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs16\cf0 Wally by Ty Matthews and Neal White III
\par Help file by Tom Cleghorn aka Murgatroyd \'a91998\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble10}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Introduction}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b\ul 
\par \plain\f2\fs36\cf0\b\ul Introduction\plain\f2\fs36\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs36\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab 
\par \tab Wally is a program for the manipulation of Quake II \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\ul .wal files\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble20}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 .  It currently allows you to:-
\par 
\par \tab - Load, view and save .wal files.
\par \tab - Create new textures.
\par \tab - Browse texture directories.
\par \tab - Set content and surface flags in textures.
\par \tab - Edit at a pixel level.
\par \tab - Add various effects, such as bullet holes, scratches, and so on.
\par \tab - Import and export PCX, BMP and Quake MIP files.
\par \tab - Change the palette of a texture.
\par \tab - Copy and paste to and from the Windows clipboard.
\par \tab - Resample individual mips within a texture, using ReMip Deluxe.
\par \tab - Drag-and-drop files into the Wally desktop.
\par 
\par \tab Wally was conceived in order to allow Quake2 editors to bring custom textures into their levels with the maximum of ease, by avoiding the need to convert images between formats in image editing apps and eliminating awkward DOS-prompt programs for the creation of the actual .wal file. It also allows flags to be set in the .wal files defining light levels, transparency and other properties of the texture. Wally is, and always will be, freeware.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble15}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Version History}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Version History\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20         0.7 (2/2/1998):
\par              First public release of Wally
\par 
\par         0.8 (2/16/1998):
\par              Added some cool stuff:
\par                     - ClipBoard paste
\par                     - PCX import
\par                     - Support for JASC .pal files
\par                     - Wally Options menu
\par                     - Texture pop-up dialog
\par                     - Persistent settings
\par 
\par              And fixed others:
\par              \tab - Fixed texture flags
\par                     - Fixed explorer-type launching
\par 
\par         0.81 (2/23/1998):
\par \tab \tab New/Improved:\tab 
\par \tab              - ReMipDeluxe has been implemented :)
\par \tab              - Added Paste As New Texture
\par \tab              - Added Drag-n-Drop support for Wally shortcut
\par 
\par         0.90 (3/14/1998):
\par \tab  \tab Bug Fixes:
\par \tab \tab \tab - Draw Tiled
\par \tab \tab \tab - Drawing coords bug when scrolled
\par \tab \tab \tab - Drawing tools draw connected lines
\par 
\par \tab \tab New/Improved:
\par \tab \tab \tab - Undo/Redo up to 50 items
\par \tab \tab \tab - Paintbrush
\par \tab \tab \tab - Eraser
\par \tab \tab \tab - Darken
\par \tab \tab \tab - Lighten
\par \tab \tab \tab - Scratch
\par \tab \tab \tab - Bullet Holes
\par \tab \tab \tab - Brush width
\par \tab \tab \tab - Brush shape
\par \tab \tab \tab - Brush intensity
\par \tab \tab \tab - Texture browsing
\par \tab \tab \tab - 24bit BMP support
\par \tab \tab \tab - 24bit clipboard pasting
\par \tab \tab \tab - Quake1 MIP file support
\par \tab \tab \tab - Changed File...Import to File...Convert
\par \tab \tab \tab - View of all four sub-mips at once
\par \tab \tab \tab - Improved drawing code
\par \tab \tab \tab - Better drag-n-drop support to Wally icon/screen
\par \tab \tab \tab 
\par                 
\par         1.00 (4/14/1998):
\par \tab  \tab Bug Fixes:
\par \tab \tab \tab - Fixed always too dark scratch
\par \tab \tab \tab - Fixed lighten/darken/tint tools after Edit...Paste
\par \tab \tab \tab 
\par \tab \tab New/Improved:
\par \tab \tab \tab - Flood fill
\par \tab \tab \tab - Big cursor for drawing tools
\par \tab \tab \tab - Constraining tool (vertical/horizontal)
\par \tab \tab \tab - Pattern paint
\par \tab \tab \tab - Added some tool widths (4, 6, and 8)
\par \tab \tab \tab - Copy to clipboard, copy to clipboard tiled
\par \tab \tab \tab - Mirror, flip, and rotate (left/right, 90-180-270 degrees)
\par \tab \tab \tab - Three blend filters (light, medium, heavy)
\par \tab \tab \tab - Spray paint tool
\par \tab \tab \tab - Color palette tooblar
\par \tab \tab \tab - Color replacer tool
\par \tab \tab \tab - 24-bit PCX import
\par \tab \tab \tab - Added export of BMP and PCX format
\par \tab \tab \tab - Moved multiple options dialog boxes into one

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble17}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Credits}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Credits\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par Id Software... duh.
\par 
\par Team BDP for just being the best damn TC group on the planet.
\par 
\par To ADarcJedi, Ozric, and Talon:
\par "Thanks for putting up with my crap during our all-nighter ICQ meetings :)"
\par 
\par Thanks to Neal White III for coming aboard and straightening me out :)
\par 
\par Mosquito from Quake2.com, for painting the awesome splash screen and art.
\par 
\par Tom Cleghorn for doing up the Help file and tutorial stuff.
\par 
\par Q11 for beta testing and various bug reporting/enhancement suggestions.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Wally was written in Visual C++ by Ty Matthews <ty@wwa.com> and Neal White III <nwhite@softblox.com>.
\par 
\par This help file was written by Tom Cleghorn <murgatroyd@geocities.com>
\par Remember: Caffeine is your Friend.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b\ul The beat goes on.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble19}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} About ReMipDLX}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b\ul About ReMipDLX\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b\ul 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b\ul 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab ReMipDLX was written by Neal White III to resample .mip and .wad files for Quake 1. Since the texture data itself is the same in Q2, ReMipDLX was written into Wally to give maximum sub-mip quality - in most cases, textures resampled by ReMipDLX will turn out with better quality than id's textures; try ReMipping one of the textures from Q2 to see what we mean. If you prefer the look of id's textures, you can set ReMipDLX to create sub-mips of similar quality. If you don't, feel free to go through all the Q2 textures and ReMip them all. Just bear in mind that there are over 2,000 of them :)
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Using ReMipDLX\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble26}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike ReMipDLX Options\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble21}\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble20}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} .WAL Files}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b .WAL Files:
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Quake II, unlike Quake, stores all its textures inside its .pak files in the form
\par of .wal files - a .wal file consists of four images, each half the size of the
\par previous, in order to be able to map textures at different resolutions depending
\par on the distance of the viewer.  See the topic \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 #{\footnote # main}\plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Using .WAL Files\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble30}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  for more information
\par on the use of .WALs.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble21}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} ReMipDLX Options}
{\up K}{\footnote {\up K} remip;resample;submip}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b ReMipDLX Options\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc rmdopt.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par This is the options dialogue for ReMipDLX, which you can access through the View menu.
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 \tab The Dithering Method options control how ReMipDLX calculates the scaled-down mips. Error Diffusion is recommended. Experiment with  these settings if you are having problems with rogue pixels of the wrong colour.
\par 
\par \tab The Sharpening options control the extent to which ReMipDLX sharpens the scaled-down mips. Again, experiment with the settings if your ReMipped textures look wrong.
\par 
\par \tab The Use Recommended Settings button returns ReMipDLX settings to their defaults.
\par 
\par \tab The Use Quake Lookalike Settings sets ReMipDLX to use settings which will give results similar to id's textures.
\par 
\par \tab You can also set ReMipDLX to automatically operate when you save, when you paste or import, and when you have altered the main image with the check-boxes at the bottom. These are set to off by default.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble26}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Using ReMipDLX}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Using ReMipDLX\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab There are three ways to ReMip a texture - you can simply press F11, you can choose ReMipDLX from the Edit menu, or you can right-click with the pointer tool anywhere on the texture and choose ReMipDLX.
\par \tab This will run ReMipDLX with your settings, and create or update the three sub-mips.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble30}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Using .WAL Files}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Using .WAL Files\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab This tutorial assumes that you have already created the .wal files you wish to use in your level; if not, you should read the tutorial on Creating a New Texture first. It would also be helpful to have some idea of how Quake2 reads the textures for its levels - the basics of this can be found in the Quake2 Technical Information section.
\par 
\par \tab There are two ways to use a custom texture in your Quake2 levels; the easier way is to create a subdirectory of Quake2/baseq2 called textures, and place the appropriate .wal file in there, or in a subdirectory of it. If you are creating a large modification to Q2, or your mod uses a new game DLL, you will need to create a different subdirectory of baseq2/ and run Q2 with the command line "quake2 +set game <yourmodname>". All that is different here is that you create your textures directory within Quake2/yourmod/. If you use directories, your directory listing should look something like this:
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc texpath.bmp\}
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 In this example, ALL the custom .wal files would go into
\par the directory C:\\Quake2\\baseq2\\textures\\custom\\
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 \tab Alternatively, you can put your textures into a .pak file. To do this, you will need a .pak extracting program - there are plenty available for download on the Internet. This method would be more sensible if you intend to distribute several levels at once, as users can simply place the .pak file into their baseq2 directory and play. Remember, however, that QRAD3 needs the textures OUTSIDE the .pak file in order to perform coloured lighting and radiosity when you compile your level.
\par \tab Once the .wal files are in place, all you need to do is set up your editor to read the new texture directory and use it in your levels. Remember to distribute the .wal files with your level, or users will not see the new textures.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble40}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Wally Image Tools}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Wally Image Tools
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Click on the icons below to read more about each tool. Most of them should be familiar
\par to you if you have used any standard paint programs. You can constrain the tools to either vertical
\par or horizontal movement by holding the Shift key as you draw; change between the two by pressing
\par the spacebar - the current constrain direction is displayed in the bottom right of the Wally window.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc clicker.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Clicker tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc tile.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Tile image.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc flags.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Set flags.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc zoom.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Zoom tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc dropper.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Dropper tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc plotter.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Pencil tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc paint.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Paintbrush tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc eraser.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Eraser tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc flood.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Flood Fill.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc spray.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Spraycan Tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc sprayrepl.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Spraycan Recolour Tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc replace.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Replace Tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc recolour.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Recolour Tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc lighten.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Lighten tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc darken.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Darken tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc tint.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Tint tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc pattern.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Pattern Paint.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc scratch.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Scratch tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bullet.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Bullet Holes tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc remip.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  ReMip.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble41}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Set Flags}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Set Flags
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 This is the Texture Information dialogue:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc texflag.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par 
\par Use this to set content and surface properties of a texture - this will
\par give the properties you set to any brush with the texture, unless you change
\par the settings in your level editor.
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 The options available are as follows:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Name\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - allows you to specify an internal name for the texture; it is best if the name matches the filename - e.g, a custom texture in "\\baseq2\\textures\\mymod\\custom.wal" would be called "mymod/custom"
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Width \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 and\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b  Height \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 - displays the dimensions of the texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Next Animation Texture\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - this allows you to specify a texture to follow the texture in an animation. Use the internal name of the texture, not the path to the file (i.e, "mymod/custom2" instead of "..\\textures\\mymod\\custom.wal").
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Value (light)\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - when the 'light' flag is set, this number will be the intensity of the light given off by the texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b\ul Surface Property Flags:-
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 These flags affect only individual faces which have the texture.
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b\ul 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Light\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to emit light, which is coloured to match the texture in GL mode.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Slick\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to act like ice.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Sky\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to plot the sky set for the level instead of the image in the .wal.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Warp\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to shift and swirl like water, lava, and so on.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Trans33\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  and \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Trans66\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to be 33% or 66% translucent.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Flowing\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the texture to move. Used with rivers or conveyor belts.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b NoDraw\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The texture will not be drawn in the game.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Hint\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The texture will be a hint brush. Do not use if you do not understand what these are :)
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Skip\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - A face with this texture will be completely ignored by Q2.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b\ul Content Property Flags:-
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 These flags affect the entire brush to which the texture is applied.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Solid\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Default for all brushes.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Window\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the brush to be a window.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Aux \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 - Not used\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Lava\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush is lava.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Slime\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush is slime.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Water\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush is water.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Mist\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush can be walked through.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab AreaPortal\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush will block VIS. Refer to your level editor manual.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab PlayerClip\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The player cannot walk through the brush, but other things can.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab MonsterClip \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 - Monsters cannot walk through the brush, but other things can.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Current 0/90/180/270/up/dn\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Use with 'flowing' surface property to set the direction of flow.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Origin\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - Sets the brush to be an origin. Refer to your level editor manual.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Detail\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush will not be included in the VIS process. Refer to your level editor manual.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Translucent\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush allows light to pass through it.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par \tab Ladder\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  - The brush is a ladder.
\par 
\par Most level editor manuals will go into far more detail about the surface attributes - this is intended as a basic guide, since it is more a level editing matter than a texture matter. You do not need to set these attributes in order to use them in your levels, as any settings in the map will override the flags in the .wal file - it is simply more convenient to have the flags already set when you build your level.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble42}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Tile Image}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Tile Image
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Click this to display the texture in a 3x3 array; this is useful for checking that a texture has no
\par visible 'seams' - that is, that the edges line up correctly when the texture is repeated.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble43}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Flood Fill}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Flood Fill\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 This replaces the colour of the area you click in with the
\par selected colour, up to any change in colour.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble44}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Zoom Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Zoom Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Sets the magnification factor of the texture - left-click zooms in, and right-click zooms out.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble45}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Clicker Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Clicker Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 The clicker tool does not affect the image in any way - use it to turn off any editing tools, and 
\par right-click on the image with it to bring up the popup menu.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble46}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Dropper Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Dropper Tool
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Click on any part of the texture with the Dropper to pick the colour of that part for use with
\par the drawing tools.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble47}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Pencil Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Pencil Tool
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use the Pencil to draw freehand onto the image.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble48}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Paintbrush Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Paintbrush Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use the Paintbrush tool to paint onto the image in different shapes and thicknesses of
\par brush. You can change the thickness, shape and intensity of the brush from menus
\par accessed from these buttons on the colour palette:
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc brushset.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble49}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Eraser Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Eraser Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Erases pixels to black.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble50}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Lighten}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Lighten\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use this tool to make the texture lighter.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble51}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Darken}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Darken\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use this tool to make the texture darker.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble52}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Tint}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Tint\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 This tool will tint the texture with the currently-selected colour. You can also set
\par the size, shape and intensity of the tint in the same way as the paintbrush.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble53}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Scratch}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Scratch\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Draw freehand with this tool to simulate scratches on the surface of the texture.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble54}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Bullet Holes Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Bullet Holes Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 This tool simulates bullet holes on the surface of the texture. Left-click for a small hole,
\par and right-click for a larger one.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble55}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} ReMip Button}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b ReMip Button\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Press this button to ReMip the texture on the basis of the largest mip.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble56}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Spraycan Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Spraycan Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 This applies paint to the texture in the selected colour to look
\par like a spraypaint or an airbrush has been used.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble57}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Pattern Paint}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Pattern Paint\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use this tool to paint a hatched pattern using the two selected colours alternately,
\par similar to a safety hazard strip. Use the left button for narrow stripes and the right
\par for wide stripes. Hold 'F' to reverse the direction of the stripes.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble58}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Spraycan Recolour}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Spraycan Recolour\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Use this tool to spray paint in the same way as the spraycan tool, while
\par retaining the underlying features of the texture.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble59}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Replace Colour}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Replace Colour\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Replaces the colour you click on with the selected colour.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble60}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Wally File Tools}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Wally File Tools\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Click on the icons below to read more about each tool.
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc new.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  New
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc open.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Open
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc save.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Save
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc browse.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Browse
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc convert.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Convert Image
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc export.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Export Image
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc loadpal.shg\} \plain\f2\fs20 Load Palette
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc wallopt.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Wally Options
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc cut.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Cut
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc copy.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Copy
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc paste.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Paste
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc undo.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Undo
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc redo.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Redo
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc colour.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  Show/Hide Colour Palette Toolbar
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc about.shg\}\plain\f2\fs20  About

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble61}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} New}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b New\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Creates a new blank texture.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble62}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Open}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Open\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Opens an existing .wal file.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble63}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Save}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Save\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 Saves the current texture.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble64}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Browse}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Browse\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Opens a dialogue to select a folder to browse for .wal files. The .wal files will be shown
\par in tiles in a separate window, from which you can open the files.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble65}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Convert Image}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Convert Image\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Loads an image in 8 or 24-bit BMP, 8-bit PCX or Quake 1 .mip format and converts
\par it to .wal format.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble66}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Load Palette}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Load Palette
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Loads a palette in Quake .lmp or JASC .pal format and converts the current texture to it.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble67}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Wally Options}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Wally Options\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Allows you to change Wally's settings. See the topic \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 #{\footnote # main}\plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Wally Settings\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble80}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0  for more detail.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble68}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Export Image}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Export Image\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Saves the current texture in Windows bitmap or
\par PCX format.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble69}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Show/Hide Colour Toolbar}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Show/Hide Colour Toolbar\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Click this button to show or hide the \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 #{\footnote # main}\plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Colour Palette Toolbar\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble90}\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 .
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble70}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Cut, Copy, Paste}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Cut, Copy, Paste\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 These are the standard Windows 95 clipboard operations, used to transfer information between
\par files.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble71}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Undo, Redo}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Undo, Redo\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Click undo to return an image to its previous state, from before you applied the last
\par change to it. You can undo an undo operation by clicking redo.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble72}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} About Button}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b About\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Displays a little window telling you all about Wally. Click it again, just to see our names - 
\par what fun!\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble73}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Recolour Tool}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Recolour Tool\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 Paints the texture with the selected colour, but retains the underlying
\par features of the texture, as though the paint was transparent.\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble80}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Wally Settings}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b Wally Settings\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 These are the settings which can be changed for Wally:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Wally Options\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble81}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike ReMipDLX Options\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble21}\plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble81}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Wally Options}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Wally Options\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 This is the Wally Options dialogue, accessed through the View menu or by clicking
\par the button on the toolbar:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc walloptdlg.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par You can change the following settings:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Default Zoom Value
\par \plain\f2\fs20 This is the magnification which a texture will be opened at and at
\par which Wally will be set when you start.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Default New Texture Size
\par \plain\f2\fs20 A new texture will be created at the dimensions you set here.
\par All textures \plain\f2\fs20\b must\plain\f2\fs20  have dimensions which are multiples of 16.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Retain previous texture width/height
\par \plain\f2\fs20 Check this box to tell Wally to retain old settings.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Palette Conversion
\par \plain\f2\fs20 You can change the way Wally resamples the image when you load
\par a new palette. Experiment with the settings if you are getting
\par weird results.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble90}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Colour Palette Toolbar}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Colour Palette Toolbar\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 This is Wally's colour selection toolbar:
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc wallypalette.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par Click with the left button to set the colour to be painted with the left button
\par and click with the right button to set the colour to be painted with the right mouse button.
\par The three menus at the bottom are used to set the thickness, shape and
\par intensity of the selected painting tool. The selected colours are previewed in the 
\par two boxes in the middle; the box in the background is the right-button colour and the
\par one in the foreground is the left-button colour.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble100}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} File Menu}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \tab File Menu
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab The commands available from the File menu are:
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b New (Ctrl+N)
\par 
\par \tab \plain\f2\fs20 Creates a new texture. You can specify the name of the texture and its dimensions, which \plain\f2\fs20\b must\plain\f2\fs20  be multiples of 16.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Open (Ctrl+O)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Opens a .wal format texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Browse (Ctrl+B)\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \tab Allows you to bring up a window showing previews of all the .wal files in a directory. You can open files by double-clicking on the preview tile in the browse window.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Close\plain\f2\fs20 
\par \tab Closes the currently active texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Save (Ctrl+S)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Saves the currently active texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Save As\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \tab Saves the currently active texture to a specific filename.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Convert...
\par \plain\f2\fs20 
\par \tab Imports an image in PCX, Windows bitmap or Quake 1 .mip format, converting it to .wal format.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Load Palette (Ctrl+P)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Loads a palette from disk in either Quake .lmp format or JASC .pal format (as exported from PaintShop Pro) and converts the image to it.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Exit
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Quits Wally. Duh.
\par 
\par \tab You can also open textures from the history list at the bottom of the File menu.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble110}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} View Menu}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \tab View Menu
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \tab 
\par \tab The commands available in the View menu are:
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Toolbar
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Shows or hides the toolbar.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par Tool Palette
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Shows or hides the tool palette.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par Status Bar
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Shows or hides the status bar at the bottom.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par Tiled (Ctrl+T)
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \tab Toggles the texture window between tiled and untiled - when the window is tiled, it displays nine copies of the texture arranged in a square, allowing you to see what the texture will look like when applied to a large brush.\plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b 
\par 
\par Options...
\par ReMipDLX Options...
\par Tool Options...\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 
\par \tab See the topic Wally Options.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble120}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Edit Menu}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \tab Edit Menu
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab The commands available from the Edit menu are:
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Undo (Ctrl+Z)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Reverts the image to its state before the last action you carried out on it.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Redo (Ctrl+Y)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Returns an image to its state after an action that has been undone.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Cut (Ctrl+X), Copy (Ctrl+C), Paste (Ctrl+V/E)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Standard Windows clipboard functionality - you can paste the contents of the clipboard either as a new texture or into the currently active texture.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Clear (Del)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Scrubs mip 1 of the texture (the largest panel) to black.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b ReMip (F11)\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \tab See the topic on ReMip Deluxe.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0\b Texture Properties... (F12)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf0 \tab Displays the Texture Properties dialogue, allowing you to change the surface properties of a texture.
\par \plain\f2\fs20 

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble130}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Image Menu}
}
\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par \tab Image Menu\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 
\par \tab The commands available from the Image menu are:
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Blend
\par \plain\f2\fs20 
\par \tab Softens the image, blurring it slightly. This is useful when the edges of a seamless texture
\par do not quite line up properly. You can choose between light, medium or heavy blending.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Mirror (Ctrl+M)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Flips the image in its X-axis (left-right).
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Flip (Ctrl+L)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Flips the image in its Y-axis (top-bottom).
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\b Rotate (Ctrl+R)
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab Displays the Rotate Image dialogue, from which you can rotate the image by 90, 180 or
\par 270 degrees clockwise or anticlockwise.

{\page}

{\pard\plain\f0\fs20
{\up #}{\footnote {\up #} Scribble140}
{\up $}{\footnote {\up $} Creating a New Texture with Wally}
}
\deflang2057\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs32\cf0\b 
\par Creating a New Texture with Wally\plain\f2\fs32\cf3\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf0 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 \tab This is a relatively simple procedure, requiring very little technical expertise; if done correctly, you can produce great-looking results. There are two ways to do it: the quicker way is to draw everything within Wally, and the slower, but better, way is to import an image or photograph from another paint app and use Wally to convert it to a Quake2 texture. For this tutorial, which will show you how to create a cliff texture from a photograph, we will take the longer route. It is assumed that you are capable of basic use of your paint app.
\par 
\par \tab 1. Find the photo you want to use (or take it, if you have a digital camera, you flashy show-off, you :) and load it into your paint app. Make sure that both dimensions are multiples of 16 (16, 32, 48, 64, 80 etc...), or Wally will not load it - Quake2 requires that ALL textures are divisible by 16 in both dimensions. Save it as a 24-bit .bmp image.
\par 
\par \tab 2. Start Wally, and click on the Convert Image button - \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc convert.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 . Use the file selection dialogue to find and open your bmp file. Wally will load the image and convert it to the Quake2 palette, and create the three sub-mips. Click the ReMip button - \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc remip.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20  - to resample the image and create the sub-mip images.
\par 
\par \tab 3. Your texture should now look something like this:
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20 
\par \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc tutor1.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 \tab 4. Click on the Tile Image button - \plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc tile.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20  - and you will probably notice that your texture does not mesh properly at the seams - you can see the edge of each tile, something like this:
\par 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 \{bmc tutor2.bmp\}\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 \tab 5. Staying in Tiled mode, use a combination of the Blend filters (from the \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Image Menu\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble130}\plain\f2\fs20 ) and straight painting to remove the seams from the texture.
\par 
\par \tab 6. Save the texture as a .wal file into your custom .wal directory below ..\\baseq2\\textures\\ and make sure you have set the \plain\f2\fs20\cf1\strike Flags\plain\f2\fs20\cf2 {\v Scribble41}\plain\f2\fs20  for the texture name.
}
